Come back in this video I would like to quickly talk about important data types in C++ or in general
something that is important and that is data types and C++.
So let's have a look at this presentation and then go right into the code because we need to check out
some things so they that types in C++ are a little different than Python.
So Pike youth and cute PI they automatically convert Python types to C++ types and that is super convenient
for us because then we don't have to do that but C++ is a little more precise with data types than pythoness.
And for example queued expects a q string in C++ and Pike you'd automatically convert a python string
into a q string.
And as you can see here at the top set window title expects a string and we enter something like student
manager in there.
And that's totally fine.
So that works.
Now if we look at it then we see that it converged it's automatically and quite reliably as well.
Occasionally however errors do occur.
So let's look at an example where cute expects a q string but Python passes a number because we have
entered a number in there instead of a string.
And we get a result which is an error number cannot be converted to Q. string.
So there is a simple solution.
Convert that number to a string in Python using the SDR method and that pretty much solves the problem.
So something that occurs in Python as well.
But sometimes we can just be very loose with our Parminter So arguments that we enter and Python still
understands what we want but in other programming languages it has to be very specific and very precise.
And then say we should check this out in code.
So let's go back to our code example.
And here we have this set window title student manager by the way if you ran this code you might have
realized that student managers not even set as the title of so-called main window.
And you might wonder why is that.
Well that's because of the order of our code because here we say set window title and then we say self-view
I set up UI.
So here it actually resets up the UI.
So our title that we have said here is going to be ignored.
So a good spot to actually set the title would be after set up UI.
So that's pretty important so if we run the code again we will see that suddenly this window with me
is called studen manager.
OK so now what if we enter a number in here instead of a string because here we just enter the string.
So let's say I enter 2:59 in here then I get this error here where it says set window title self as
the argument one has unexpected type int.
So when untidily expects a string but receives an integer so we need to enter a string here.
That's not nothing new we have seen some of that in Python before right.
But it's there are some other cases where it's a little more precise in C++ than it is in Python.
And then there is one more thing about the differences that is that are important for us and that is
how methods are handled.
So we have this calculate BMI method and we pretty much can create this method only once and it can
only have one set of parameters.
But if we look at another example so let's say I will add the size of the bottom or we'll change the
size of our button that we have to put the following.
So self-taught you wind or calculate.
So this is the button or calculate button.
And now let's say I want to set a fixed size 2.
So I'm going to set the size to something like I'd say 200 times 200.
Now if we run that we will see that our button is a lot bigger.
So this is our 200 times 200 fixed size button.
So as you can see now it's not really moving with our size of the UI.
So using a fixed size is not a good idea.
Most of the cases are in most cases but if you really want to make sure that for example a window is
not smaller than 200 times 200 then you can set a fixed size but that's not really what I want to talk
to you about.
I want to show you that you can actually enter something else in here.
But if we for example make a little mistake here and yet by accident enter a string in here or we think
that a string should be fine as well.
And we run that and we get a problem or an error here where it says type arguments do not match any
overloaded call and over loaded call.
What that means is that in C++ there are two methods that are called set fixed size and there is one
that expects self size.
And there's one that expect self in it.
So there are two overloads which pretty much means that there are two methods with the exact same name
that have two different amounts of arguments.
So let me just create another one here where I just pass here this one shall pass and here I enter something
like my name or something like that.
Then I have this calculate am I method and this is an overload to this method.
So there are two different methods with the exact same name.
And this one requires a my name variable or argument.
When this method is called and this one doesn't.
So that's the same thing here.
So there's one that expects an integer and another integer and there is another one would expect ace
a q size and that is something that is done in C++ and other programming languages quite often.
And in our case if we can of course say something like 200 200 but we could also use a q size as a argument
here so we could say something like qued core that Q cites
and in order to use that we actually need to import those.
So I need to import.
Q core this one here.
OK.
Q core queue size so you can see there is something called queue size.
And here I can enter.
Let's say this has to be 200 or 100 times 100.
So now make the button a little smaller if I run that again you will see OK this button is a little
smaller but then I don't need to do like that.
I can actually create a new variable that I call size for example and this size is going to be this
cube core Q size.
And now I can go ahead and use the size here as a argument and you can see that we still get this button.
So there are two types of handling it.
In this case because there are two overloads for this set fixed sites.
And that's just something that I wanted to show you and talk to you about because well that's something
that can cause problems.
All right.
So I'm going to get rid of this as well because I want to go back to the code we had before.
So you say that and see you in the next video.